README.md, before:

Jeeshop (Work In Progress)
=======

# Description
Jeeshop is a e-commerce solution allowing you to setup quickly your online store.

It provides you with a store management GUI, [Jeeshop-Admin](#Jeeshop-Admin) and an complete set of REST apis designed for your store front-end application (typically a javascript rich client application)
* Products catalog
* Discounts
* Shopping cart
* Users management

Jeeshop relies on following technologies :
* Java EE 7 and Java 8 for e-commerce back-end
* AngularJS for [Jeeshop-Admin](#Jeeshop-Admin)

# Links
Project website: http://jeeshop.org

# Components

## <a name="Jeeshop-Admin">Jeeshop-Admin</a>
Jeeshop-Admin is a responsive AngularJS client application designed to manage efficiently your store.
It consumes Jeeshop [REST api backend](#backend) to perform store management operations.

## <a name="backend">REST back-end</a>
Jeeshop back-end provides a set of REST apis designed to enable e-commerce and user management in your store front-end application.
They are also used internally by [Jeeshop-Admin](#Jeeshop-Admin) management operations.

These resources are organized per functional domain :
* Catalog - provides product catalogs related resources
* User - provides user management related resources
* Order - provides orders management related resources

Related documentation:
* [Catalog REST api](http://jeeshop.org/docs/1.0/rest/catalog/generated-docs/rest-api.html)
* [Order REST api](http://jeeshop.org/docs/1.0/rest/order/generated-docs/rest-api.html)
* [User REST api](http://jeeshop.org/docs/1.0/rest/user/generated-docs/rest-api.html)

## <a name="backend">Jeestore</a> TODO
Jeestore is a AngularJS front-end demo application application which consumes Jeeshop [REST api backend](#backend)
You can just suit it to your needs when you plan to use AngularJS for your store front-end.

# Installation
Jeeshop components can be deployed to any Java EE 7 application server. (Web and full profile)

## Wildfly (8 and 9 versions)
This section describes deployment of Jeeshop components to a Wildfly server.

### <a name="wildfly-datasources">Datasources</a>
The following XA datasources are currently used by jeeshop modules and have to be created in server configuration
* JeeshopDS

Sample of configuration for a standalone server with datasources referencing a single jeeshop database:

  ``` xml
  <xa-datasource jndi-name="java:/JeeshopDS" pool-name="JeeshopDS" enabled="true">
      <xa-datasource-property name="ServerName">
          localhost
      </xa-datasource-property>
      <xa-datasource-property name="DatabaseName">
          jeeshop
      </xa-datasource-property>
      <driver>mysql</driver>
      <security>
          <user-name>jeeshop</user-name>
          <password>test</password>
      </security>
      <validation>
          <valid-connection-checker class-name="org.jboss.jca.adapters.jdbc.extensions.mysql.MySQLValidConnectionChecker"/>
          <exception-sorter class-name="org.jboss.jca.adapters.jdbc.extensions.mysql.MySQLExceptionSorter"/>
      </validation>
  </xa-datasource>
  <driver name="mysql" module="com.mysql">
      <driver-class>com.mysql.jdbc.Driver</driver-class>
      <xa-datasource-class>com.mysql.jdbc.jdbc2.optional.MysqlXADataSource</xa-datasource-class>
  </driver>
  ```
  
### <a name="wildfly-authentication">Security domain configuration</a>
A security domain named "jeeshop" has to be created to allow BASIC authentication and Role based access to protected REST Resources, using JaaS.

* Sample of configuration for a standalone server:

``` xml
  <security-domain name="jeeshop" cache-type="default">
      <authentication>
          <login-module code="Database" flag="required">
              <module-option name="dsJndiName" value="java:/JeeshopDS"/>
              <module-option name="principalsQuery" value="select password from User where login = ? and (disabled is null or disabled = 0) and activated = 1"/>
              <module-option name="rolesQuery" value="select name,'Roles' from Role r, User_Role ur, User u where u.login=? and u.id = ur.userId and r.id = ur.roleId"/>
              <module-option name="hashAlgorithm" value="SHA-256"/>
              <module-option name="hashEncoding" value="base64"/>
              <module-option name="unauthenticatedIdentity" value="guest"/>
          </login-module>
      </authentication>
  </security-domain>
  ```

#### Configure SSL to secure channels

SSL has to be configured in order to secure credentials sent in requests performed by store customers or Jeeshop-admin users (ie store administrators).
This action is not required under a PaaS such as Openshift. (See [Wildfly Openshift cartridge](#openshift))

* Create server certificate

Execute the following command in a temp directory

    keytool -genkeypair -alias serverkey -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -validity 7360 -keystore server.keystore -keypass <PASSWORD FOR PRIVATE KEY>  -storepass <PASSWORD FOR KEYSTORE> -dname "cn=Server Administrator,o=jeeshop,c=FR"

Copy the server.keystore file in to the ${jboss.home.dir}/standalone/configuration folder

* In standalone.xml configuration file

Add the following security realm block :

``` xml
    <security-realms>
        ...
        <security-realm name="SSLRealm">
            <server-identities>
                <ssl>
                    <keystore path="server.keystore" relative-to="jboss.server.config.dir" keystore-password="THE KEYSTORE PASSWORD"/>
                </ssl>
            </server-identities>
        </security-realm>
    </security-realms>
  ```

Add the following http-listener line to the server block (in undertow subsystem)

``` xml
    <server name="default-server">
        ...
       <https-listener name="default-https" socket-binding="https" security-realm="SSLRealm"/>
       ...
     </server>
  ```

### Jeeshop JBOSS Module
A JBOSS Module named "jeeshop" have to be created to <WILDFLY HOME>/modules directory.
It contains multiple configuration properties such as:
* Mailer parameters (SMTP parameters, Sender...)
Sample of this module configuration is available in .openshift directory

### Jeeshop media directory

To serve Jeeshop catalog media files uploaded through Jeeshop-Admin, the following configurations have to be added in standalone.xml configuration file:

Add the following in undertow subsystem

``` xml
<subsystem xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:undertow:1.2">
            ...
            <server name="default-server">
               ...
                <host name="default-host" alias="localhost">
                   ...
                    <location name="/jeeshop-media" handler="jeeshop-media"/>
                   ...
                </host>
            </server>
            ...
            <handlers>
                ...
                <file name="jeeshop-media" path="/home/remi/jeeshop-media" directory-listing="true"/>
                ...
            </handlers>
            ...
        </subsystem>
  ```

## Database setup
Database setup scripts are provided in ./install/db directory

* jeeshop-install.sql contains ddl and jeeshop reference data. It creates also a single user with login/password admin/jeeshop (password is hashed using SHA-256 in this script, which must match security domain configuration, see [Security domain configuration](#wildfly-authentication)). This user should be deleted in production environment for security reason.
* jeeshop-drop.sql empties database
* demo-catalog-data contains jeeshop demonstration catalog data

Notes:
Current database scripts works with a single database referenced in server datasources configuration. See [Datasources](#wildfly-datasources) section above.
However, it is possible to use several database for each Jeeshop domains. For sample one database for Catalog and another for User and Order domains.
TODO add section and scripts to document use of databases per domain

## Apache TomEE 2.x
This section describes deployment of Jeeshop components to Apache TomEE 2.x.
TODO

## <a name="openshift">Wildfly Openshift cartridge</a>
This section describes deployment of Jeeshop components to Openshift PaaS.
TODO

Commit message:

[FLYWAY] Just run mvn flyway:clean mvn flyway:migrate

README.md, after:

Jeeshop (Work In Progress)
=======

# Description
Jeeshop is a e-commerce solution allowing you to setup quickly your online store.

It provides you with a store management GUI, [Jeeshop-Admin](#Jeeshop-Admin) and an complete set of REST apis designed for your store front-end application (typically a javascript rich client application)
* Products catalog
* Discounts
* Shopping cart
* Users management

Jeeshop relies on following technologies :
* Java EE 7 and Java 8 for e-commerce back-end
* AngularJS for [Jeeshop-Admin](#Jeeshop-Admin)

# Links
Project website: http://jeeshop.org

# Components

## <a name="Jeeshop-Admin">Jeeshop-Admin</a>
Jeeshop-Admin is a responsive AngularJS client application designed to manage efficiently your store.
It consumes Jeeshop [REST api backend](#backend) to perform store management operations.

## <a name="backend">REST back-end</a>
Jeeshop back-end provides a set of REST apis designed to enable e-commerce and user management in your store front-end application.
They are also used internally by [Jeeshop-Admin](#Jeeshop-Admin) management operations.

These resources are organized per functional domain :
* Catalog - provides product catalogs related resources
* User - provides user management related resources
* Order - provides orders management related resources

Related documentation:
* [Catalog REST api](http://jeeshop.org/docs/1.0/rest/catalog/generated-docs/rest-api.html)
* [Order REST api](http://jeeshop.org/docs/1.0/rest/order/generated-docs/rest-api.html)
* [User REST api](http://jeeshop.org/docs/1.0/rest/user/generated-docs/rest-api.html)

## <a name="backend">Jeestore</a> TODO
Jeestore is a AngularJS front-end demo application application which consumes Jeeshop [REST api backend](#backend)
You can just suit it to your needs when you plan to use AngularJS for your store front-end.

# Installation
Jeeshop components can be deployed to any Java EE 7 application server. (Web and full profile)

## Wildfly (8 and 9 versions)
This section describes deployment of Jeeshop components to a Wildfly server.

### <a name="wildfly-datasources">Datasources</a>
The following XA datasources are currently used by jeeshop modules and have to be created in server configuration
* JeeshopDS

Sample of configuration for a standalone server with datasources referencing a single jeeshop database:

  ``` xml
  <xa-datasource jndi-name="java:/JeeshopDS" pool-name="JeeshopDS" enabled="true">
      <xa-datasource-property name="ServerName">
          localhost
      </xa-datasource-property>
      <xa-datasource-property name="DatabaseName">
          jeeshop
      </xa-datasource-property>
      <driver>mysql</driver>
      <security>
          <user-name>jeeshop</user-name>
          <password>test</password>
      </security>
      <validation>
          <valid-connection-checker class-name="org.jboss.jca.adapters.jdbc.extensions.mysql.MySQLValidConnectionChecker"/>
          <exception-sorter class-name="org.jboss.jca.adapters.jdbc.extensions.mysql.MySQLExceptionSorter"/>
      </validation>
  </xa-datasource>
  <driver name="mysql" module="com.mysql">
      <driver-class>com.mysql.jdbc.Driver</driver-class>
      <xa-datasource-class>com.mysql.jdbc.jdbc2.optional.MysqlXADataSource</xa-datasource-class>
  </driver>
  ```
  
### <a name="wildfly-authentication">Security domain configuration</a>
A security domain named "jeeshop" has to be created to allow BASIC authentication and Role based access to protected REST Resources, using JaaS.

* Sample of configuration for a standalone server:

``` xml
  <security-domain name="jeeshop" cache-type="default">
      <authentication>
          <login-module code="Database" flag="required">
              <module-option name="dsJndiName" value="java:/JeeshopDS"/>
              <module-option name="principalsQuery" value="select password from User where login = ? and (disabled is null or disabled = 0) and activated = 1"/>
              <module-option name="rolesQuery" value="select name,'Roles' from Role r, User_Role ur, User u where u.login=? and u.id = ur.userId and r.id = ur.roleId"/>
              <module-option name="hashAlgorithm" value="SHA-256"/>
              <module-option name="hashEncoding" value="base64"/>
              <module-option name="unauthenticatedIdentity" value="guest"/>
          </login-module>
      </authentication>
  </security-domain>
  ```

#### Configure SSL to secure channels

SSL has to be configured in order to secure credentials sent in requests performed by store customers or Jeeshop-admin users (ie store administrators).
This action is not required under a PaaS such as Openshift. (See [Wildfly Openshift cartridge](#openshift))

* Create server certificate

Execute the following command in a temp directory

    keytool -genkeypair -alias serverkey -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -validity 7360 -keystore server.keystore -keypass <PASSWORD FOR PRIVATE KEY>  -storepass <PASSWORD FOR KEYSTORE> -dname "cn=Server Administrator,o=jeeshop,c=FR"

Copy the server.keystore file in to the ${jboss.home.dir}/standalone/configuration folder

* In standalone.xml configuration file

Add the following security realm block :

``` xml
    <security-realms>
        ...
        <security-realm name="SSLRealm">
            <server-identities>
                <ssl>
                    <keystore path="server.keystore" relative-to="jboss.server.config.dir" keystore-password="THE KEYSTORE PASSWORD"/>
                </ssl>
            </server-identities>
        </security-realm>
    </security-realms>
  ```

Add the following http-listener line to the server block (in undertow subsystem)

``` xml
    <server name="default-server">
        ...
       <https-listener name="default-https" socket-binding="https" security-realm="SSLRealm"/>
       ...
     </server>
  ```

### Jeeshop JBOSS Module
A JBOSS Module named "jeeshop" have to be created to <WILDFLY HOME>/modules directory.
It contains multiple configuration properties such as:
* Mailer parameters (SMTP parameters, Sender...)
Sample of this module configuration is available in .openshift directory

### Jeeshop media directory

To serve Jeeshop catalog media files uploaded through Jeeshop-Admin, the following configurations have to be added in standalone.xml configuration file:

Add the following in undertow subsystem

``` xml
<subsystem xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:undertow:1.2">
            ...
            <server name="default-server">
               ...
                <host name="default-host" alias="localhost">
                   ...
                    <location name="/jeeshop-media" handler="jeeshop-media"/>
                   ...
                </host>
            </server>
            ...
            <handlers>
                ...
                <file name="jeeshop-media" path="/home/remi/jeeshop-media" directory-listing="true"/>
                ...
            </handlers>
            ...
        </subsystem>
  ```

## Database setup
Database setup scripts are provided in ./install/src/main/db directory

* jeeshop-install.sql contains ddl and jeeshop reference data. It creates also a single user with login/password admin/jeeshop (password is hashed using SHA-256 in this script, which must match security domain configuration, see [Security domain configuration](#wildfly-authentication)). This user should be deleted in production environment for security reason.
* jeeshop-drop.sql empties database
* demo-catalog-data contains jeeshop demonstration catalog data

Notes:
Current database scripts works with a single database referenced in server datasources configuration. See [Datasources](#wildfly-datasources) section above.
However, it is possible to use several database for each Jeeshop domains. For sample one database for Catalog and another for User and Order domains.
TODO add section and scripts to document use of databases per domain

You can use *FLYWAY* (see https://flywaydb.org/) to execute automatically these script.
Just run maven

```
    mvn flyway:clean
    mvn flyway:migrate
```

## Apache TomEE 2.x
This section describes deployment of Jeeshop components to Apache TomEE 2.x.
TODO

## <a name="openshift">Wildfly Openshift cartridge</a>
This section describes deployment of Jeeshop components to Openshift PaaS.
TODO
